Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in this group of lectures, I want to discuss platforms
that some marketers refer to as emerging markets, and
what would be worth trying out in that group itself.
Now, what exactly do I mean by an emerging market?
Well, it's basically a platform that marketers
have not completely saturated yet.
There's still room for someone like you to jump in
and get some form of results, and usually you can
do it at a much higher ROI - less effort, more return.
Why?
Well, because fewer people are
in the pool. Now, specifically here,
I want to talk about two emerging markets,
and that's Snapchat and Instagram.
Now, you might be thinking, how are these two massive
platforms that I've heard of for years now still emerging?
Yes, I know you're right.
Snapchat and Instagram are massive platforms,
but many marketers are still trying to figure out how
exactly to use them to appeal to their audience.
What would you consider a mature market?
Well, probably something like Google
Adwords or Facebook Marketing.
Those have been around long enough that
their ad platforms are well-developed,
they're well understood, and they're well utilized.
Everybody knows how to use those. Snapchat, for instance,
as we're speaking now, is still rolling out their
first iteration of their marketing platform.
Instagram, they're kind of incorporated into Facebook and
they're a little bit more mature, but people still have no
idea how to market on there. Now, finding
success isn't always straightforward,
so it helps to first understand the users on the platform
and why they use the platforms in the first place.
Now, both of those platforms, Snapchat and Instagram,
are essentially for posting videos and photos.
Snapchat has over 150 million daily users, mostly tweens, and
Instagram now has a user base of something like 700 million.
There is a pretty contentious rivalry between the two.
In my opinion, Instagram is winning pretty easily.
Now, yes, I know, these are both massive,
but there's one thing that's driving the emerging-ness
of these two platforms, and that's their demographics.
Snapchat users are young,
like I said, tweens, most of them like Twilight.
Two thirds of its users are under 25 years old. Now,
meanwhile, about 60% of Instagram users are under 30,
with a third of its users in their 30s and 40s.
So Instagram is not as young as Snapchat,
but still there are plenty of younger users in it.
So in that sense, its emerging in two different ways.
It's emerging because these are younger, more
impressionable consumers, especially the ones that didn't
grow up with Facebook or the
platforms that we are all used to,
and then also, they're just not saturated yet, their
ad platforms are not mature, therefore people are
still trying to figure out what works,
people on the platforms don't expect ads as much,
therefore they're usually more susceptible to them.
So which platform is worth trying?
Well, both are actually promising if your business
caters to a younger audience and you're interested
in trying some new ways to reach them.
And then the second "if" is if your business could take
advantage of a purely visual platform, where all you
post are pictures and videos.
Now, not every business out there can make videos
and photos work. Plumbing services are not going to
have a lot of success, because
what are you going to share?
But if you're a health food store, yeah, you can show
photos of your food in a beautiful pasture and then
people being happy and healthy, that naturally
lends itself to video and photo more easily.
Now, it's obviously a spectrum.
It's not yes or no, you can't do video/photos, but
some are just going to be easier than others.
I generally say try it out, unless you know for a fact
that your audience just isn't on these platforms.
Try it out.
It doesn't take a lot of effort.
That's why we have it in the "Get your 100" section,
because it doesn't take a lot to try this out
and easily within a week or so you'll figure out if it's working.
Now, if your audience skews older, like 40s and up, well,
you might do better concentrating on other channels.
And if you find it challenging to come up with visual
ideas for the kind of marking that you want to do,
maybe a channel that focuses on written posts and
articles would probably be a little more appropriate.
If you want to learn more about Snapchat and Instagram,
well, we need to dive into each platform
and get to know them a little bit better.
We'll start in our next lecture with the
younger of the two, snappy Snapchat.
All right, see you then.